This course is focused on securing our systems.
We've learned about firewalls,
wireless intrusion detection, and securing Windows operating systems.
We're now turning our attention to securing Linux at the OS level.
For this section we'll be using CentOS or our primary examples,
although many will apply to other distributions.
This section will include prevention from our three component model of security.
In this section we will look at best practices for securing your Linux distro.
We'll learn about daemons,
including those that are needed,
those that aren't, we'll take a look at file and directory permissions.
To close things out we will be patching your Linux distro.
Often Linux erupts in organizations due to the applications,
the server's host, too often these machines are set up and forgotten about.
Consider these recommendations for security best practices.
There are many different methods of encrypting disks and
Linux dm-crypt is a current popular choice.
As part of regular maintenance add a note to
periodically evaluate all user accounts on your machines.
Once confirm they are no longer needed you can remove them to shrink your attack surface.
In Linux 777 permissions are effectively wide open.
It implies everyone can read,
write, and execute everything in the directory.
Obviously this isn't conducive to a secure environment
and goes against the least privileged principle we learned about.
Take the time to audit all directory permissions and set them accordingly.
The less exposure your root account has the better.
You can simply create another account,
give it the proper privileges,
and log in remotely with it.
Unless there's a very good reason not to,
it's a wise idea to enable the built-in firewall.
There are many other best practices to securing the Linux OS.
Additional reading can be found in classroom notes.
We're now turning to daemons.
According to the Linux Information project,
a daemon is a type of program on Unix-like operating systems that
runs unobtrusively in the background rather than under the direct control of the user.
If that rings a bell,
it's because a daemon is essentially the same thing
as a Windows service which you learned about previously.
In fact later distributions you'll see the word service used more frequently.
Viewing installed daemons varies from version to version and in distro to distro.
Keep in mind we're running CentOS 7.x.
As with all things Linux,
there are multiple ways to arrive at this destination.
Choose the one you're most comfortable with.
Run the command: systemctl list-units --type service -all.
Systemctl is used to examine and control the state of system D. List units,
view services, dash dash type service will show all active services.
Adding dash dash all will include services that are not active.
This is the output of active services.
Linux permissions can be a little confusing.
However if you break them down they become much more clear.
They are similar to what we learned in Windows with the types read, write, and execute.
Where they differ is how they are applied to the owner,
the group, and everyone else. Let's dig in.
The user is the owner of the file,
the group can contain multiple users who bound to fall.
We'll get the same permissions due to their membership.
Think of the marketing example from the Windows section.
Other is any other user that isn't the owner or a member of the a for mentioned group.
To view the permissions of all that is contained in
a directory you can type ls space minus l,
to view the permissions of a specific file,
you can type ls space minus l, then the file name.
To view the permissions of a specific directory,
you can type ls space minus ld, then the directory name.
Here is an example of file permissions in Linux.
Let's take a closer look.
The dash in front of the permissions denotes a file.
If there were a d it would be for a directory.
The rwx indicates that the owner of this file can read, write,
and execute.The xr indicates that any member of the group can execute and read the file.
The x means that anyone that doesn't fall into
the two previous categories can execute or run the file and nothing else.
The First name is the owner of the file.
The second name is what group has permissions. Changing permissions.
Chmod, also known as chmod changes to permissions on a file or directory.
Chgrp changes which group has access.
Finally chown changes the owner of the file.
In this example we're using chmod to change the file permissions on a file called Test.
If you recall permissions are for user, group, or other.
Here we're granting other meaning anyone that
isn't the owner group read and execute permissions.